Add concepts page on Pod disruptions (#454)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/concepts/pages/operations/pod_disruptions.adoc

= Pod disruptions

Downtime of our products are generally considered bad.
Although downtime can't be prevent 100% of the time - especially if the product does not support High Availability - we can try to do our best to reduce them to an absolute minimum.

Kubernetes has mechanisms to ensure minimal *planned* downtime.

> Please keep in mind, that this only affects planned (voluntary) downtime of Pods - multiple simulations Kubernetes node crashes can always occur!

Author: I was trying to argue that two k8s node crashes can happen at the same time, so even if you have a HA setup of 2 Pods, both of them can be down at the same time.
Changed to "unplanned Kubernetes node crashes can always occur."

> Please keep in mind, that this only affects planned (voluntary) downtime of Pods - multiple simulations Kubernetes node crashes can always occur!

Reviewer: Great, thanks!

Our product operator will always deploy so-called https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/[PodDisruptionBudget (PDB)] alongside the products.
For every role that you specify (e.g. HDFS namenodes or Trino workers) a PDB get's created.

== Default values
The defaults depend on the individual product and can be find below the "Operations" usage guide.

They are based upon our knowledge about the products fault tolerance.
In some case they can be a bit pessimistic, thus they can be adjusted as documented in the following sections.

== Influencing and disabling PDBs

You can configure

> 1. Wether PDBs are written at all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Whether PDBs are written at all
```

2. The `maxUnavailable` replicas for this role PDB

The following example

1. Sets `maxUnavailable` for NameNodes to `1`
2. Sets `maxUnavailable` for DataNodes to `10`, which allows downtime of 10% of the total DataNodes.
3. Disables PDBs for JournalNodes

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: hdfs.stackable.tech/v1alpha1
kind: HdfsCluster
metadata:
  name: hdfs
spec:
  nameNodes:
    roleConfig: # optional, only supported on role level, *not* on rolegroup
      podDisruptionBudget: # optional
        enabled: true # optional, defaults to true
        maxUnavailable: 1 # optional, defaults to our "smart" calculation
    roleGroups:
      default:
        replicas: 3
  dataNodes:
    roleConfig:
      podDisruptionBudget:
        maxUnavailable: 10
    roleGroups:
      default:
        replicas: 100
  journalnodes:
    roleConfig:
      podDisruptionBudget:
        enabled: false
    roleGroups:
      default:
        replicas: 3
----

== Using you own custom PDBs

> In case you are not satisfied with the PDBs that are written by the operators, you can deploy you own ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you are not satisfied with the PDBs that are written by the operators, you can deploy your own.
```

WARNING: In case you write custom PDBs, it is your responsibility to take care of the availability of the products

> IMPORTANT: It is important to disable the PDBs created by the operators as described above before creating your own PDBs, as this is a https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/75957[limitation of Kubernetes].

Reviewer: >  to disable the PDBs created by the operators

Maybe make it clear how this is done: by deleting the PodDisruptionBudget resources, or by disabling `podDisruptionBudget` for each role?

Author: You write `spec.nameNodes.roleConfig.podDisruptionBudget.enabled: false` and our operators will automatcially clean up the PDBs with the normal orphaned resources mechanism

Author: Changed to "It is important to disable the PDBs creating of the Stackable operators as described above before creating your own PDBs"

Reviewer: Thanks!

> IMPORTANT: It is important to disable the PDBs creating of the Stackable operators as described above before creating your own PDBs, as this is a https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/75957[limitation of Kubernetes].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: It is important to disable the PDBs created by the Stackable operators as described above before creating your own PDBs, as this is a https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/75957[limitation of Kubernetes].
```

*After disabling the Stackable PDBs*, you can deploy you own PDB such as

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: policy/v1
kind: PodDisruptionBudget
metadata:
  name: hdfs-journalnode-and-namenode
spec:
  maxUnavailable: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: hdfs
      app.kubernetes.io/instance: hdfs
    matchExpressions:
      - key: app.kubernetes.io/component
        operator: In
        values:
          - journalnode
          - namenode
----

> This PDB allows only on Pod out of all the Namenodes and Journalnodes to be down at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This PDB allows only one Pod out of all the Namenodes and Journalnodes to be down at one time.
```
